$Id$

See:

http://www2003.org/cfp.htm for Call For Papers


IMPORTANT DATES
Tutorial/workshop proposals deadline:
 October 15, 2002
 
Paper submission deadline: 
 November 15, 2002
 
Poster submission deadline: 
 January 15, 2003
 
Author notification (papers): 
 January 31, 2003
 
Final papers due: 
 February 28, 2003
 
Author notification (posters): 
 February 28, 2003
 
Conference: 
 May 20-24, 2003
 


Likely topic area: Web Engineering (Area 11)

Web Engineering
The World Wide Web and its associated technologies have become a major implementation and delivery platform for a large variety of applications, ranging from simple institutional information websites to sophisticated supply-chain management systems, financial applications, e-government, distance learning, and entertainment, among others. Such applications, in addition to their intrinsic functionality, also exhibit the more complex behavior of distributed applications. 

Recently, there have been some advances towards making the development - design and implementation - of Web applications a disciplined and systematic endeavor, but the vast majority of existing applications have been developed in an ad-hoc way, leading to problems of maintainability, quality and reliability. Web applications are software artifacts, and as such can benefit from established practices from several related disciplines such as Software Engineering, Hypermedia and HCI to create, manage, and reuse structures of the information space and enhance the end user experience. In addition, it has its own characteristics that must be addressed, such as a varied user population, very short development turnaround times, diverse runtime environments, accessibility through multiple devices, etc. 

Web Engineering addresses these issues and focuses on systematic, disciplined and quantifiable approaches to the cost-effective development and evolution of high-quality, ubiquitously useable Web-based systems and applications. 

The Web Engineering area of the Refereed Papers Track covers processes, methodologies, system design, lifecycle and management of large Web-based systems, and education and research issues. In addition, illustrative case studies and best practices, showing how Web Engineering techniques and principles have been successfully employed are also welcome. 

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

Web application development processes and methodologies 
Design models and methods 
OO technology and component-based Web engineering 
Web application frameworks and architectures 
Feederated Web services and service-oriented Web application approaches 
Peer-to-Peer approaches for Web application architectures 
Reuse and integration 
Use and integration of meta-data in Web applications 
Web design patterns and pattern mining 
Managing system evolution and maintenance 
Web personalization 
Adaptive Web applications 
Web metrics 
Quality measures and evaluation 
Web usability 
Web application testing 
Web application deployment 
Performance modeling, monitoring and evaluation 
Development teams and Web project management 
Legal obligations 
Case studies 
Papers discussing relationships and interactions among Web development and other disciplines are also invited. 


See template files in submission-templates/

These are modified versions of the ACM proceedings style files. More information on the style files can be found at 

http://www.acm.org/sigs/pubs/proceed/template.html 

Notes for LaTeX users: 


To ensure your submission is formatted for Letter paper, use
\documentclass[letterpaper]{www2003-submission} in your LaTeX file,
and use "dvips -t letter".

All authors should be listed on the front page. For instructions for
more than 3 authors, see
http://www.acm.org/sigs/pubs/proceed/sigfaq.htm#a18

We encourage authors to submit concise papers with up to 8 pages;
however, papers with up to 10 pages may be submitted, and an
additional 2 pages (for a maximum of 12) may be purchased at a cost of
$100/page. Over-length or incorrectly formatted submissions may be
rejected without reviews. Final copies of accepted papers will be
required in both PDF and XHTML formats. XHTML formatting details will
be provided at a later date.

Authors must also include a short 30-word statement with their
submission which emphasizes the contribution of their paper. The
statement will be seen by reviewers. For accepted papers, the final
statement will appear in the Table of Contents of the conference
proceedings and will be edited for clarity and accuracy by the program
committee.

Submissions must be made at http://witanweb.www2003.org/ 

Inquiries can be sent to www2003-pc-chairs@necmail.com. 

